---
title: License

menu: Summary order: 70
---

Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004
https://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

   "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined
   by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

   "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is
   granting the License.

   "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are
   controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
   "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
   entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
   outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

   "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this
   License.

   "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited
   to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.

   "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a
   Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and
   conversions to other media types.

   "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under
   the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
   (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

   "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or
   derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other
   modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this
   License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or
   bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

   "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and
   any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
   submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or
   Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this
   definition, "submitted"
   means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its
   representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source
   code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
   Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that
   is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a
   Contribution."

   "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a
   Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor
   hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
   copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
   sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor
   hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
   (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell,
   import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims
   licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or
   by combination of their Contribution(s)
   with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
   against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
   or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent
   infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall
   terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof
   in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
   meet the following conditions:

   (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License;
   and

   (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the
   files; and

   (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all
   copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding
   those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

   (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative
   Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
   within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
   Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
   as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with
   the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever
   such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational
   purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within
   Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the
   Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the
   License.

   You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or
   different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your
   modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
   distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution
   intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms
   and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the
   above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you
   may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service
   marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in
   describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor
   provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
   WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation,
   any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
   PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
   redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under
   this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including
   negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and
   grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for
   damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
   character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (
   including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or
   malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has
   been advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works
   thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty,
   indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in
   accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility,
   not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each
   Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor
   by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is
distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the
License.

The GNU General Public License (GPL)

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing
it is not allowed.

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By
contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This General Public License
applies to most of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by the GNU Library
General Public License instead.) You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our General Public Licenses
are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and
charge for this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you want it,
that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny you these rights or
to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you
if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give
the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get
the source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps:

(1) copyright the software, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software. Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make
certain that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the software
is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what they have is not
the original, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors'
reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish to avoid the danger
that redistributors of a free program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for
everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice placed by the copyright
   holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program"
   , below, refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the
   Program or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Program
   or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
   language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)
   Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they
are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the
Program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Program (independent of
having been made by running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it, in
   any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
   copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this
   License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy
   of this License along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer
warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus forming a work based
   on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
   above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files
and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or in part contains or is
derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run, you must cause it, when
started running for such interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or
else, saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception: if the Program
itself is interactive but does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on the
Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are
not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute
them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work
based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose
permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part
regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written
entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of
derivative or collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the Program (or with a
work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other
work under the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section 2) in object code
   or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the
   following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give any third party, for a
charge no more than your cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to distribute corresponding source
code. (This alternative is allowed only for noncommercial distribution lland only if you received
the program in object code or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b
above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For
an executable work, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus
any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and
installation of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need
not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs,
unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated
place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source
along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as expressly provided
   under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program
   is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
   have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
   terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else
   grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions
   are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing
   the Program (or any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to
   do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Program or
   works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program), the recipient
   automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the
   Program subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
   recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
   compliance by third parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other
   reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order,
   agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you
   from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously
   your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence
   you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit
   royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly
   through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
   entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance,
the balance of the section is intended to apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in
other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right
claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting
the integrity of the free software distribution system, which is implemented by public license
practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the
author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a
licensee cannot impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest
of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain countries either by
   patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Program under
   this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
   so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case,
   this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the General Public
   License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
   but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies a version number of
this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms
and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs whose distribution
    conditions are different, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is
    copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
    make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
    status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
    software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE
    EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
    EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
    AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
    PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
    SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER,
    OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE
    TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
    OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
    DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE
    PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED
    OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, the
best way to achieve this is to make it free software which everyone can redistribute and change
under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach them to the start of
each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at
least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

One line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without
even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not,
write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it starts in an
interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO
WARRANTY; for details type 'show w'. This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type 'show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands 'show w' and 'show c' should show the appropriate parts of the General
Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be called something other than 'show w' and '
show c'; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program. You should also
get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright
disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program 'Gnomovision' (which makes
passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989

Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into proprietary programs. If
your program is a subroutine library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary
applications with the library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General Public
License instead of this License.

"CLASSPATH" EXCEPTION TO THE GPL

Certain source files distributed by Oracle America and/or its affiliates are subject to the
following clarification and special exception to the GPL, but only where Oracle has expressly
included in the particular source file's header the words "Oracle designates this particular file as
subject to the "Classpath" exception as provided by Oracle in the LICENSE file that accompanied this
code."

Linking this library statically or dynamically with other modules is making a combined work based on
this library. Thus, the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License cover the whole
combination.

As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give you permission to link this
library with independent modules to produce an executable, regardless of the license terms of these
independent modules, and to copy and distribute the resulting executable under terms of your choice,
provided that you also meet, for each linked independent module, the terms and conditions of the
license of that module. An independent module is a module which is not derived from or based on this
library. If you modify this library, you may extend this exception to your version of the library,
but you are not obligated to do so. If you do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement
from your version.

Oracle Technology Network License Agreement for Oracle Java SE Oracle is willing to authorize Your
access to software associated with this License Agreement (“Agreement”) only upon the condition that
You accept that this Agreement governs Your use of the software. By selecting the "Accept License
Agreement" button or box (or the equivalent) or installing or using the Programs, You indicate Your
acceptance of this Agreement and Your agreement, as an authorized representative of Your company or
organization (if being acquired for use by an entity) or as an individual, to comply with the
license terms that apply to the software that You wish to download and access. If You are not
willing to be bound by this Agreement, do not select the “Accept License Agreement” button or box (
or the equivalent) and do not download or access the software.

Definitions"Oracle" refers to Oracle America, Inc.

"You" and "Your" refers to (a) a company or organization (“Entity”) accessing the Programs, if use
of the Programs will be on behalf of such Entity; or (b) an individual accessing the Programs (
“Individual”), if use of the Programs will not be on behalf of an Entity.

“Contractors” refers to Your agents and contractors (including, without limitation, outsourcers).

“Development Use” refers to Your internal use of the Programs to develop, test, prototype and
demonstrate Your Applications. For purposes of clarity, the “to develop” grant includes using the
Programs to run profilers, debuggers and Integrated Development Environments (IDE Tools) where the
primary purpose of the IDE Tools is profiling, debugging and source code editing Applications.

"Program(s)" refers to Oracle software provided by Oracle pursuant to this Agreement and any
updates, error corrections, and/or Program Documentation provided by Oracle.

“Program Documentation” refers to the Licensing Information User Manual for Oracle Java SE for the
applicable version accessible at https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-documentation.html
and other documentation provided by Oracle with the Programs or accessible
at https://docs.oracle.com/en/java.

“Separate Terms” refers to separate license terms that are specified in the Program Documentation,
readmes or notice files and that apply to Separately Licensed Third Party Technology.

“Separately Licensed Third Party Technology” refers to third party technology that is licensed under
Separate Terms and not under the terms of this Agreement.

“Application” refers to applications intended to run on the Java Platform, Standard Edition.

“Personal Use” refers to an Individual's use of the Programs solely on a desktop or laptop computer
under such Individual's control only to run Personal Applications.

“Personal Applications” refers to Applications designed for individual personal use only, such as
games or personal productivity tools.

“Oracle Approved Product Use” refers to Your internal use of the Programs only to run: (a) the
product(s) identified as Schedule A Products at https://java.com/oaa; and/or (b) software
Applications developed using the products identified as Schedule B Products at java.com/oaa by an
Oracle authorized licensee of such Schedule B Products. If You are unsure whether the Application
You intend to run using the Programs is developed using a Schedule B Product, please contact your
Application provider.

“Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Use (“OCI Use”)” refers to Your use of the Programs on Oracle's Cloud
Infrastructure with the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure products identified in the Oracle PaaS and IaaS
Universal Credits Service Descriptions available at http://oracle.com/contracts during the period in
which You maintain a subscription for such Oracle Cloud Infrastructure products.

License Rights and Restrictions Oracle grants You a nonexclusive, nontransferable, limited license
to use the Programs, subject to the restrictions stated in this Agreement and Program Documentation,
only for:

(i)     Personal Use,
(ii)    Development Use,
(iii)   Oracle Approved Product Use, and/or
(iv)   Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Use.

You may allow Your Contractor(s) to use the Programs, provided they are acting on Your behalf to
exercise license rights granted in this Agreement and further provided that You are responsible for
their compliance with this Agreement in such use. You will have a written agreement with Your
Contractor(s) that strictly limits their right to use the Programs and that otherwise protects
Oracle's intellectual property rights to the same extent as this Agreement. You may make copies of
the Programs to the extent reasonably necessary to exercise the license rights granted in this
Agreement. You may not:

remove or modify any Program markings or any notice of Oracle's or a licensor's proprietary rights;
make the Programs available in any manner to any third party (other than Contractors acting on Your
behalf as set forth in this Agreement); assign this Agreement or distribute, give, or transfer the
Programs or an interest in them to any third party, except as expressly permitted in this Agreement
for Contractors (the foregoing shall not be construed to limit the rights You may otherwise have
with respect to Separately Licensed Third Party Technology); cause or permit reverse engineering (
unless required by law for interoperability), disassembly or decompilation of the Programs; and
create, modify, or change the behavior of, classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way
identified as "java", "javax", "sun", “oracle” or similar convention as specified by Oracle in any
naming convention designation. The Programs may contain source code that, unless expressly licensed
in this Agreement for other purposes (for example, licensed under an open source license), is
provided solely for reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and may not be
modified.

All rights not expressly granted in this Agreement are reserved by Oracle. If You want to use the
Programs for any purpose other than as expressly permitted under this Agreement, You must obtain
from Oracle or an Oracle reseller a valid Program license under a separate agreement permitting such
use.

OwnershipOracle or its licensors retain all ownership and intellectual property rights to the
Programs.

Third-Party Technology The Programs may contain or require the use of third party technology that is
provided with the Programs. Oracle may provide certain notices to You in Program Documentation,
readmes or notice files in connection with such third party technology. Third party technology will
be licensed to You either under the terms of this Agreement or, if specified in the Program
Documentation, readmes or notice files, under Separate Terms. Your rights to use Separately Licensed
Third Party Technology under Separate Terms are not restricted in any way by this Agreement.
However, for clarity, notwithstanding the existence of a notice, third party technology that is not
Separately Licensed Third Party Technology shall be deemed part of the Programs and is licensed to
You under the terms of this Agreement.

Source Code for Open Source SoftwareFor software that You receive from Oracle in binary form that is
licensed under an open source license that gives You the right to receive the source code for that
binary, You can obtain a copy of the applicable source code from https://oss.oracle.com/sources/
or http://www.oracle.com/goto/opensourcecode. If the source code for such software was not provided
to You with the binary, You can also receive a copy of the source code on physical media by
submitting a written request pursuant to the instructions in the "Written Offer for Source Code"
section of the latter website.

Export Controls Export laws and regulations of the United States and any other relevant local export
laws and regulations apply to the Programs. You agree that such export control laws govern Your use
of the Programs (including technical data) and any services deliverables provided under this
agreement, and You agree to comply with all such export laws and regulations (including "deemed
export" and "deemed re-export" regulations). You agree that no data, information, program and/or
materials resulting from Programs or services (or direct products thereof) will be exported,
directly or indirectly, in violation of these laws, or will be used for any purpose prohibited by
these laws including, without limitation, nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons proliferation, or
development of missile technology. Accordingly, You confirm:

You will not download, provide, make available or otherwise export or re-export the Programs,
directly or indirectly, to countries prohibited by applicable laws and regulations nor to citizens,
nationals or residents of those countries. You are not listed on the United States Department of
Treasury lists of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, Specially Designated
Terrorists, and Specially Designated Narcotic Traffickers, nor are You listed on the United States
Department of Commerce Table of Denial Orders. You will not download or otherwise export or
re-export the Programs, directly or indirectly, to persons on the above mentioned lists. You will
not use the Programs for, and will not allow the Programs to be used for, any purposes prohibited by
applicable law, including, without limitation, for the development, design, manufacture or
production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction. Information CollectionThe
Programs' installation and/or update processes, if any, may transmit a limited amount of data to
Oracle or its service provider about those processes to help Oracle understand and optimize them.
Oracle does not associate the data with personally identifiable information. Refer to Oracle's
Privacy Policy at www.oracle.com/privacy.

Disclaimer of Warranties; Limitation of Liability THE PROGRAMS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND. ORACLE FURTHER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
NONINFRINGEMENT.

IN NO EVENT WILL ORACLE BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, OR DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE, DATA OR DATA USE, INCURRED BY YOU OR ANY THIRD
PARTY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION IN CONTRACT OR TORT, EVEN IF ORACLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGES. ORACLE'S ENTIRE LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL IN NO EVENT EXCEED
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS (U.S. $1,000).

No Technical Support Oracle does not provide technical support, phone support, or updates under this
Agreement.

Audit; Termination Oracle may audit an Entity's use of the Programs. You may terminate this
Agreement by destroying all copies of the Programs. This Agreement shall automatically terminate
without notice if You fail to comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, in which case You
shall promptly destroy all copies of the Programs.

Relationship Between the Parties Oracle is an independent contractor and we agree that no
partnership, joint venture, or agency relationship exists between us. We each will be responsible
for paying our own employees, including employment related taxes and insurance. Nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to limit either party's right to independently develop or distribute
software that is functionally similar to the other party's products, so long as proprietary
information of the other party is not included in such software.

Entire Agreement; Governing Law You agree that this Agreement is the complete agreement for the
Programs and this Agreement supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements or representations,
including any clickwrap, shrinkwrap or similar licenses, or license agreements for prior versions of
the Programs. This Agreement may not be modified and the rights and restrictions may not be altered
or waived except in a writing signed by authorized representatives of You and of Oracle. If any term
of this Agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain
effective.

This Agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of the State of California, USA,
and You and Oracle agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts of San
Francisco or Santa Clara counties in California in any dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement.

Notices Should You have any questions concerning this Agreement, or if You desire to contact Oracle
for any reason, please write:

Oracle America, Inc. 500 Oracle Parkway Redwood City, CA 94065

Oracle Employees: Under no circumstances are Oracle employees authorized to download software for
the purpose of distributing it to customers. Oracle products are available to Oracle employees for
internal use or demonstration purposes only. In keeping with Oracle's trade compliance obligations
under U.S. and applicable multilateral law, an Oracle employee's failure to comply with this policy
could result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.

Last updated: April 10, 2019



